feat(service-worker): add the option to prefer network for navigation… (#38565)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/service-worker-config.md

1. The URL must not contain a file extension (i.e. a `.`) in the last path segment.
2. The URL must not contain `__`.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer: Nit: IMO either _"see **the** navigationRequestStrategy section"_ or _"see navigationRequestStrategy"_ (without _"section"_) would read better.
But again I am not a native speaker :grin:

<sub>BTW, sorry for noticing these one by one 😇</sub>

Author: You're right. I'll adjust that.

> But again I am not a native speaker

Neither am I, I'm sure we did good enough 😇

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is tricky to word. Here's a suggestion using a sort of stylized way that we do it.

```suggestion
You can specify the request strategy your application uses. 
For more information on configuring navigation requests, see the [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.
```

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer: It seems that [this comment](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/38565/files#r487504879) was addressed in 175205e5b3bf674b87c285b1ae0257a759faf886, but then the change was reverted in a52c5b31cea8fa36af621f652ac586a91373177f ([diff][1]).

Was it intentional?

[1]: https://github.com/angular/angular/compare/175205e5b3bf674b87c285b1ae0257a759faf886..21009e81ae18e123919349cd585aefb32c51d0eb

Author: No, absolutely not. I mixed it up. Will clean up right away :+1:

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](guide/service-worker-config#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.
```

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](guide/service-worker-config#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.
```

> To configure whether navigation requests are sent through the network or not, see [`navigationRequestStrategy`](guide/service-worker-config#navigation-request-strategy) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure whether navigation requests are sent through to the network or not, see [navigationRequestStrategy](#navigation-request-strategy) section.
```

(IMO, it is better for links not to be wrapped in backticks, because otherwise it is difficult to distinguish regular code from links.)

1. The URL must not contain a file extension (i.e. a `.`) in the last path segment.
2. The URL must not contain `__`.

> > NOTE: To configure whether navigation requests are sent through the network or not, see [`navigationRequestStrategy`](#navigationrequeststrategy) section.

Reviewer: Please use an [alert or callout][1] for this info.

[1]: https://angular.io/guide/docs-style-guide#alerts-and-callouts

  '!/**/*__*/**',  // Exclude URLs containing `__` in any other segment.
]
```

### Prefer network for navigation requests

> There are scenarios, where server might redirect the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (300 status code), including:

Reviewer: Great job adding docs right from the beginning :100:

I think we should make it clear that this should be used with caution (and only if necessary) and that mention some of the downsides (for example, slower response times).

Author: Could we add a `NOTE` for that or do you prefer a rephrased general description on line 291?

Something along these lines:

```
> NOTE: When this option is enabled, navigation requests are made with each request opposed to no request by default. **Use with caution**
```

  '!/**/*__*/**',  // Exclude URLs containing `__` in any other segment.
]
```

> ### Prefer network for navigation requests

Reviewer: Actually, as we do for other properties, we should have a `##` section for `navigationRequestStrategy`. Then we could add a note in the `navigationUrls` section to point to `navigationRequestStrategy` for configuring how navigation requests are handled.

There are scenarios, where server might redirect the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (300 status code), including:

- Broken URL
- You have a new website, but want to preserve existing links/bookmarks
- Redirect to the authentication website, when authentication is not handled by the application

> To enable this behavior provide the `navigationRequestStrategy` option in the `ngsw-config.json`.

Reviewer: What behavior? :grin:
Maybe first say something like:

> You can configure how navigation requests are handled by the service worker by specifying the `navigationRequestStrategy` option:
>
> \`\`\`json
> ...
> \`\`\`
>
> Possible values:
> - \`'performance'\` (the default): Serves the specified \[index file](#index-file) (which is typically cached).
> - \`'freshness'\`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the \`performance\` behavior when offline).

  '!/**/*__*/**',  // Exclude URLs containing `__` in any other segment.
]
```

> ## `navigationRequestStrategy`

Reviewer: Since we want to link to this section, it is better/more future-proof to define a [custom anchor][1].

[1]: https://angular.io/guide/docs-style-guide#anchors

> This section enables you to configure how navigation requests are handled by the service worker by specifying the `navigationRequestStrategy` option:

Reviewer: I think it would be better to say "property" instead of "section" here (since it is a single value property - i.e. hardly a section :grin:):

```suggestion
This optional property enables you to configure how navigation requests are handled by the service worker:
```

```json
{
  "navigationRequestStrategy": "freshness"
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Possible values:
```

* `performance`, the default, replaces `navigation` requests with index requests. No `navigation` request will be made once.

> * `freshness` sends all `navigation` requests the network. This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (300 status code), including:

Reviewer: 1. So, you didn't like [my suggestion][1] :grin:
  I still believe the description of what each mode does is a little more clear as phrased in https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/38565#discussion_r482835481.

2. I think this applies to all `3xx` status codes, right (in which case I'd replace "300" with "3xx")?

[1]: https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/38565#discussion_r482835481

Author: I just struggled with how to include the use cases for the server redirects. I believe it to be a vital piece of information there. Let me know if you disagree.

I updated it to suggested text with the addition of server redirects examples:

```md
`'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file) (which is typically cached).
`'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline). This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (3xx status code), including:
  - Broken URL
  - You have a new website, but want to preserve existing links/bookmarks
  - Redirect to the authentication website, when authentication is not handled by the application
```

  - Broken URL
  - You have a new website, but want to preserve existing links/bookmarks
  - Redirect to the authentication website, when authentication is not handled by the application

> > NOTE: `performance` creates no requests on refresh or navigation, while `freshness` always creates one additional request. **Use with caution**

Reviewer: You can't say with certainty whether it creates requests or not (depends on whether `manifest.index` is cached - it usually is, but it is not necessary). I think it would be more accurate to say something like:

> The \`freshness\` strategy usually results in more requests being sent to the server and thus increased response latency. Prefer using the default `performance` strategy, unless you have good reasons not to.

Also, please use an [alert or callout][1] for this info too.

[1]: https://angular.io/guide/docs-style-guide#alerts-and-callouts

  '!/**/*__*/**',  // Exclude URLs containing `__` in any other segment.
]
```

{@a navigation-request-strategy}

## `navigationRequestStrategy`

This optional property enables you to configure how navigation requests are handled by the service worker:

```json
{
  "navigationRequestStrategy": "freshness"
}
```

Possible values:

> `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file) (which is typically cached).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file) (which is typically cached).
```

Author: Oh, did I really miss that? 🤦‍♂️

> `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline). This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (3xx status code), including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline).
  This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code), including:
```

Also, how about splitting it up into two sentences:

```suggestion
- `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline).
  This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (3xx status code).
  Reasons for doing this include:
```

Author: I actually intentionally wanted to include the use cases into the `freshness` to be crystal clear they're use cases for `freshness`.
I considered it confusing if I'd split this up. Should I follow up with your suggestion?

Author: Did you mean that with the empty line between or just the next line? Some markdown flavors would not insert a line break in case you put it just to next line.

Reviewer: No newlines. Just a separate sentence. I.e. as you have it now :+1:

  - Broken URL
  - You have a new website, but want to preserve existing links/bookmarks

>   - Redirect to the authentication website, when authentication is not handled by the application

Reviewer: Can you expand a bit on the `broken URL` scenario? I am not sure what that entails :grin:
Also, I think it is a good idea to be consistent in these bullet points (e.g. use or not use whole sentences, use the same person, tense, etc.).

Author: > You have a new website, but want to preserve existing links/bookmarks

I meant like if the website is down for whatever reason, user can be redirected using 302 temporary redirect to something like a server status page or similar. If that's too much I can get rid of it.

(No clue why I used URL honestly instead of page)

> Also, I think it is a good idea to be consistent in these bullet points (e.g. use or not use whole sentences, use the same person, tense, etc.).

Absolutely. How about:

```md
- Redirect to the server status website if the page is temporarily down.
- Redirect to the new website while preserving existing links/bookmarks.
- Redirect to the authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.
```

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> The `freshness` strategy usually results in more requests being sent to the server and thus increased response latency. Prefer using the default performance strategy, unless you have good reasons not to.

Reviewer: 1. ```suggestion
   The `freshness` strategy usually results in more requests being sent to the server and thus increased response latency.
   Prefer using the default `performance` strategy, unless you have good reasons not to.
   ```

2. I am on the fence on whether an alert of type `is-important` would be more appropriate than one of type `is-helpful`. I just wanted to bring it up here for consideration, but leaving it up to you to decide.

Author: I was in fact not sure either. Since we both had the same doubt I believe `is-important` would fit best.

  '!/**/*__*/**',  // Exclude URLs containing `__` in any other segment.
]
```

{@a navigation-request-strategy}

## `navigationRequestStrategy`

> This optional property enables you to configure the service worker handles navigation requests.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This optional property enables you to configure how the service worker handles navigation requests.
```

> This optional property enables you to configure how navigation requests are handled by the service worker:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This optional property enables you to configure the service worker handles navigation requests.:
```

Author: Is the dot between the word requests and colon intended? I am not an English speaker, but I'd still like to be sure.

I will add the requested change. If it was a mistake please let me know, otherwise feel free to resolve the conversation.

Reviewer: Having `.:` is definitely not what @aikidave intended. (I suggest keeping just the `:`, but @aikidave may disagree.)
Also, I assume there must be a `how` right after `configure`:

```diff
-This optional property enables you to configure the service worker handles navigation requests.:
+This optional property enables you to configure how the service worker handles navigation requests:
```

```json
{
  "navigationRequestStrategy": "freshness"
}
```

> Possible values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Possible values for `navigationRequestStrategy` are as follows:
```

> - `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file), which is typically cached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `'performance'`&mdash;This default value serves the specified [index file](#index-file), which is typically cached.
```

> - `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file), which is typically cached.

Reviewer 3: A minor thing: It's better to write this as:
```suggestion
- `'performance'`: The default setting. Serves the specified [index file](#index-file), which is typically cached.
```
The reason: readers tend to skip content in parentheses a lot. And some screen readers omit the parentheses anyway.

> - `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file) (which is typically cached).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `'performance'` (the default): Serves the specified [index file](#index-file), which is typically cached.
```

> - `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `'freshness'`&mdash;Passes the requests through to the network and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline.
```

> - `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network (and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `'freshness'`: Passes the requests through to the network and falls back to the `performance` behavior when offline.
```

>   This value is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This value is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect, that is a 3xx status code.
```

>   This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This value is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code).
```

Reviewer: To me `this` was referring to the behavior (of passing requests through to the network).
@aikidave, wdyt about chaning this to: `This behavior is useful when...`

>   This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (3xx status code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code).
```

>   This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using the HTTP redirect (3xx status code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is useful when the server redirects the navigation requests elsewhere using an HTTP redirect (3xx status code).
```

>   Reasons for doing this include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Reasons for doing using this value include:
```

Author: Did you mean

>   Reasons for using this value include:

instead of

>   Reasons for **doing** using this value include:

Or is really the `doing` in there correct?

Reviewer 4: I think you are correct @klemenoslaj

Author: Will adjust it then, thanks :+1:

>     - Redirect to an authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Redirecting to an authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.
```

>     - Redirecting to an authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Redirecting to an authentication website when the application does not handle authentication.
```

>     - Redirect specific URLs to avoid breaking existing links/bookmarks after a website redesign.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Redirecting specific URLs to avoid breaking existing links/bookmarks after a website redesign.
```

>     - Redirect to the server status website if the page is temporarily down.
>     - Redirect to the new website while preserving existing links/bookmarks.
>     - Redirect to the authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.

Reviewer: These look much better 👍 Thx!
Some minor suggestions/re-wording:

```suggestion
    - Redirect to an authentication website when authentication is not handled by the application.
    - Redirect specific URLs to avoid breaking existing links/bookmarks after a website redesign.
    - Redirect to a different website (for example, a server status page) while a page is temporarily down.
```

(I have also re-ordered the bullet points to (what I believe to be :grin:) more common usecases higher up.)

Author: mhm, I see. I used order by ASC you used DESC 😂  Agreed 💯 

Should maybe the `server status` be `server-status`? Not a native nor a good english speaker here 😄

Reviewer: I think there is no reason for `server status` to be hyphenated, but I am not a native speaker myself 😅
(Probably both are correct anyway :grin:)

Let me quickly run this by the docs team and see if they have any comments.

>     - Redirect to a different website (for example, a server-status page) while a page is temporarily down.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Redirecting to a different website, such as a server-status page,  while a page is temporarily down.
```

>     - Redirecting to a different website, such as a server-status page,  while a page is temporarily down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Redirecting to a different website, such as a server-status page, while a page is temporarily down.
```

<div class="alert is-important">

> The `freshness` strategy usually results in more requests sent to the server, which can increase response latency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `freshness` strategy usually results in sending more requests to the server, which can increase response latency.
```

> The `freshness` strategy usually results in more requests being sent to the server and thus increased response latency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `freshness` strategy usually results in more requests sent to the server, which can increase response latency.
```

> Prefer using the default performance strategy, unless you have good reasons not to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you using the default performance strategy whenever possible.
```
In general, we should avoid phrases like, "...unless you have good reasons not to." These phrases force the reader to ask questions that they may be unable to answer. "How do I know if I have good reasons not to?"

> It is recommended that you using the default performance strategy whenever possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you use the default performance strategy whenever possible.
```

> It is recommended that you using the default performance strategy whenever possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you use the default performance strategy whenever possible.
```

I assume that's what @aikidave meant :grin:
